[WIP] docs(common): Prefix and Suffix documentation (#1828)
telerik/blazor-docs: common-features/input-adornments.md

---
title: Input Adornments
page_title: Input Adornments
description: How to add prefix and suffix adornments in the input elements of the components.
slug: common-features/input-adornments
tags: telerik,blazor,input,adornments,prefix,suffix
published: True
position: 2
---

# Input Adornments

> Telerik UI for Blazor supports adornments for some of the components that incorporate input element. This functionality allows you to add custom elements as [prefix and suffix adornments](#basics).

Reviewer: If the `#basics` link remains, make sure to change it to the correct string.

* [Adding Suffix in UI for Blazor Components](#adding-suffix-in-ui-for-blazor-components)
* [Managing separators](#managing-separators)
* [TextArea Specifics](#textarea-specifics)
* [FloatingLabel Specifics](#floatinglabel-specifics)

## Supported components

The prefix and suffix adornments are supported by the following components:

* Simple inputs:
    * [MaskedTextbox]({%slug maskedtextbox-overview%})
    * [NumericTextBox]({%slug components/numerictextbox/overview%})
    * [TextArea]({%slug textarea-overview%})
    * [TextBox]({%slug components/textbox/overview%})

* Selects:
    * [AutoComplete]({%slug autocomplete-overview%})
    * [ComboBox]({%slug components/combobox/overview%})
    * [MultiColumnComboBox]({%slug multicolumncombobox-overview%})
    * [MultiSelect]({%slug multiselect-overview%})

## Adding Prefix in UI for Blazor Components

To add a prefix, declare `<*ComponentName*PrefixTemplate>` tag as direct child of the `<Telerik*ComponentName*>` tag.

The `PrefixTemplate` is a `RenderFragment` which allows you to declare any desired content as a prefix - be that simple text, HTML elements or components.

> >caption Prefix in UI for Blazor inputs and selects 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>caption Adding a prefix adornment in UI for Blazor
```

                        Placeholder="Search products..."
                        ClearButton="true"
                        Width="300px">
        <MultiSelectPrefixTemplate>
            <TelerikSvgIcon Icon="@SvgIcon.Search" />
        </MultiSelectPrefixTemplate>
    </TelerikMultiSelect>
</div>

@code {
    private string TextValue { get; set; }
    private string SelectedProduct { get; set; }
    private int SelectedProductId { get; set; }
    private int Height { get; set; }

    private List<string> Products = Enumerable.Range(1, 20).Select(x => $"Product {x}").ToList();

    private List<Product> ProductModels = Enumerable.Range(1, 20).Select(x => new Product { ProductId = x, ProductName = "Product " + x }).ToList();

    private List<string> SelectedProducts { get; set; }

    public class Product
    {
        public int ProductId { get; set; }
        public string ProductName { get; set; }
    }
}

<style>
    .component-container {
        border-bottom: 1px dashed black;
        padding-bottom: 10px;
        margin-bottom: 10px;
        width: 300px
    }
</style>
````

## Adding Suffix in UI for Blazor Components

> To add a suffix, declare `<*ComponentName*SuffixTemplate>` tag as direct child of the `<Telerik*ComponentName*>` tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a suffix, declare a `<*ComponentName*SuffixTemplate>` tag as a direct child of the `<Telerik*ComponentName*>` tag. The `SuffixTemplate` is a `RenderFragment`, which allows you to declare any desired content as a prefix—a simple text, HTML elements, or components.
```

> The `SuffixTemplate` is a `RenderFragment` which allows you to declare any desired content as a prefix - be that simple text, HTML elements or components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> >caption Suffix in UI for Blazor inputs and selects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>caption Adding a suffix adornment in UI for Blazor
```

    public class Product
    {
        public int ProductId { get; set; }
        public string ProductName { get; set; }
    }
}

<style>
    .component-container {
        border-bottom: 1px dashed black;
        padding-bottom: 10px;
        margin-bottom: 10px;
        width: 300px
    }
</style>
````

## Managing Separators

By default, the prefix and suffix are visually divided from the input element of the components by a separator. You can control whether the prefix and suffix separator will be visible through the following parameters:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| Parameter   | Type and Default Value | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | -------|
| `ShowPrefixSeparator` | `bool` <br /> (`true`) | Specifies whether the prefix separator is rendered. If a prefix template is not declared, the separator will not be rendered, regardless of the parameter value. |
| `ShowSuffixSeparator` | `bool` <br /> (`true`) | Specifies whether the suffix separator is rendered. If a prefix template is not declared, the separator will not be rendered, regardless of the parameter value |

## TextArea Specifics

> In addition to the above-listed configuration settings, the TextArea exposes a couple of additional options that allow you to control the position of the adornments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the common configuration settings listed in this article, the TextArea exposes a couple of additional options that allow you to control the position of the adornments.
```

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| Parameter   | Type and Default Value | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | -------|

> | `AdornmentsOrientation` | `TextAreaAdornmentsOrientation` <br /> (`TextAreaAdornmentsOrientation.Vertical`) | Configures the positioning of the TextArea prefix and suffix templates. The possible values are Horizontal and Vertical. If the value is set to Horizontal, the templates will appear above (prefix) and below (suffix) the TextArea. If the value is set to Vertical, the templates will be displayed on the left (prefix) and on the right (suffix). By default, the templates are positioned vertically. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `AdornmentsOrientation` | `TextAreaAdornmentsOrientation` <br /> (`TextAreaAdornmentsOrientation.Vertical`) | Configures the positioning of the TextArea prefix and suffix templates. The possible values are `Horizontal` and `Vertical`. If the value is set to `Horizontal`, the templates will appear above (prefix) and below (suffix) the TextArea. If the value is set to `Vertical`, the templates will be displayed on the left (prefix) and on the right (suffix). By default, the templates are positioned vertically. |
```

> | `AdornmentsFlow` | `TextAreaAdornmentsFlow` <br /> (`TextAreaAdornmentsFlow.Horizontal`) | Configures the flow of the elements in the TextArea prefix and suffix templates, determining whether the elements will be ordered in a row or column. The possible values are Horizontal (in a row) and Vertical (in a column). By default, the elements (adornments) within the templates are positioned horizontally. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `AdornmentsFlow` | `TextAreaAdornmentsFlow` <br /> (`TextAreaAdornmentsFlow.Horizontal`) | Configures the flow of the elements in the TextArea prefix and suffix templates, determining whether the elements will be ordered in a row or column. The possible values are `Horizontal` (in a row) and `Vertical` (in a column). By default, the elements (adornments) within the templates are positioned horizontally. |
```
